Andrew Gammon

NOTICE:
I'm part of the TraceRoute team, so I will not rank mine amongst these.

1. iSwitch
Turn off devices by looking at them. Uses an AR headset to detect what
you're looking at. Uses custom hardware to receive signal to shut a TV down.
Feasible? Yes, but this will require a lot of work across multiple devices,
and will require some algorithm design for recognising 
devices that have these recievers.
Useful? Yes, very. A good, non-intrusive AR application that
has a multitude of use cases for the disabled.

2. Sonar Alarm - 
Uses sonar to detect whether or not somebody is in bed. An
alarm that's only active when somebody's in bed. Uses sonar to detect
movement. I like this idea. 
Feasible? Yes. 
Useful? I have a hard time getting out of bed, so yes.

3. Enhanced E-Reader - Use the device camera to blur areas of the screen where
you're not supposed to be looking. Uses some openCV and maching learning to 
do eye detection and appropriate screen blurring
Feasible: Yes. All of the tech here is reliable, and it's been
used in similar circumstances. 
Useful? Yes. It's something that I really want - my reading comprehension
on the computer is really bad, and I'm excited to see how this will help. 

4. Name Recogniser - Putting names to faces. Uses the eye tracker
and camera to recognise faces. Uses openVR and openCV. Pulls data
from social networks to help in face recognition. Uses an interface
on the laptop to tell professors what it thinks the face you're looking
at.
Feasible? Yes. This is using proven technology, and the idea is
well-formed.
Useful? Yes, in a classroom setting. It has some scary implications
outside of the classroom, though.

5. Automatic Unlocker using the cell phone - 
Feasible? Yes. NFC technology is well delveloped. The only problem
with this is the propriary lock technology. This has some security concerns 
as well, since your phone can unlock things without unlocking the phone itself.
Useful? I think so. They have to address the security concerns, though.


6. Collaberative Drawing
Uses google cardboard to have a community drawing board.
Feasible? Probable. I'm not aware of the technical limitations
of Google cardboard, though. Useful? Maybe. This stuff has been done before.

7. Cloud Gaming Service -
Stream your games online. Play local multiplayer games online.
Feasible? Questionable. There's a lot of infrastructure
work that will have to go into this.
Useful? Yes - low-latency cloud gaming would be revolutionary
for the games industry. 

8. Talent/Service Locator -
It was hard for me to understand what they were pitching.
Feasible? Yes, using AWS to post what jobs are needed in
a geographic area. The GPS data is
reasonably accurate, so it should work well.
Useful? Probably. The exact goal of the application is
unclear to me. 





 

